
================ Saving, Loading, Winning, Cheating, and Dying =================

     Saving and loading your character should be easy.  So, sadly, is getting 
him killed.  Winning is a little harder, but the novice player can take 
advantage of various cheats to improve his chances down in the dungeon.


=== Saving and Loading your Game, and Importing Angband Savefiles ===

     Depending on the port of Oangband you are playing, you will have various 
saving and loading commands available to you.  DOS, IBM, and UNIX versions use 
the commands described in the help file "cmddesc.txt", while Macintosh and 
Windows users may also use menu options (normally found in the "file" menu).  
Be warned that the Macintosh uses preference files to determine where saves 
should go; it may take a little fiddling before you make them appear where you 
want them to.  If you get errors when saving your game, make sure the lib/save 
directory exists and, on multi-user machines, that you have write permission.

     If you are playing most ports of Oangband, the game will automatically load 
any savefile named "player" found in <<whatever directory Oangband is in>>
/lib/save/.  Under other systems, the game will wait for you to select a menu 
option (normally found in the "file" menu) and choose a savefile to load.  
     If the character contained in that savefile is dead, you are asked to 
generate a new adventurer, who possesses all the monster memories of the slain 
hero and starts out using the same options.  Otherwise, you continue your game 
where you left off.

     All known Angband and all Oangband savefiles may be used in Oangband 0.5.1; 
a concerted effort has been made to retain this capacity.  There are a few 
caveats, however:
-Some objects and ego-items will be messed up.  Spellbooks for Rangers imported 
from Angband are a total loss - be warned.
-Monsters from savefiles older than 0.5.1, especially those from Angband, may 
lose some monsters.  Others may be more or less powerful than they were.
-known spells will be fairly odd, especially for half-spellcasters.
-Options will be more or less mis-set from savefiles earlier than Oangband 0.4.0
-If the transferred Angband adventurer is on the town level, he will not be able 
to enter any stores.  Simply go down into the dungeon and back up again to 
obtain an Oangband-style town.


=== Winning The Game ===

     Once your character has killed Sauron, who lives on level 99 (4950') in the 
dungeon, a magical staircase will appear that will allow you to finally reach 
level 100.  Morgoth lurks on this level of his dungeon, and you will not be able 
to go below his level until you have killed him.  Try to avoid wandering around 
on level 100 unless you are ready for him, since he has a habit of coming at you 
across the dungeon, the Mighty Hammer 'Grond' in hand, to slay you for your 
impudence.

     Morgoth cannot be killed by some of the easier methods used on normal
creatures.  Morgoth, like all other "Unique" monsters, will simply teleport away 
to another region of the level if you attempt to use a spell such as destruction 
upon him.  Morgoth, like some other monsters, cannot be polymorphed, slept, 
charmed, or genocided.  Magical spells like Mana Storm and Annihilation are 
effective against him, as are some of the more powerful weapons, but he is 
difficult to kill and if allowed to escape for a time will heal himself rapidly.

     If you should actually survive the attempt of killing Morgoth, you will 
receive the status of WINNER.  You may continue to explore, and may even save 
the game and play more later, but since you have defeated the toughest creature 
alive, there is really not much point.  Unless you wish to listen to the rumors 
of a powerful ring buried somewhere in the dungeon...

     When you are ready to retire, simply "commit suicide" (using the "Q" key)
to have your character entered into the high score list as a winner.  Note that 
until you retire, you can still be killed, so you may want to retire before 
wandering into a room with 95 Power Dragons crammed inside...


=== Upon Death and Dying ===
 
     If your character's hit points fall below zero, he dies.  The dreaded 
tombstone will appear, and you may then dump a record of your character to a 
document in the /lib/files folder.  Afterwards, you see all of your possessions 
(identified) on screen.

     Your character will leave behind a reduced save file, which contains only
the monster memory and your option choices, both of which new characters may 
use.  It is very helpful to know something about the monster that slew your 
ancestor!

Cheating Death:  For those who, like myself, find such information helpful...
     One of the really neat things about Angband is that your character's life 
is so important.  Let him die, and you start over from scratch.  This is one of 
the secrets to this game's fascination; anyone who cheats death is really not 
getting the full Angband experience, and any Morgoth-slayers yanked from the 
jaws of death are not full winners.
      But what if your characters seem to die all the time (like mine!), and you 
really want to keep playing with the same guy?  Well, Angband has a few answers 
for that too.  You may cheat death by:
     -toggling on the "cheat death" option (see the help file "optdesc.txt").  
      This keeps your character ticking, and is even kind enough to give you a 
      running tally of your deaths by setting the character's age to zero when 
      first activated, and increasing it by one each time thereafter.
     -making backup savefiles.
     -Aborting the game just as the tombstone appears or before.

Good luck, and I hope you do what I have never managed to:  Post a genuine 
Angband/Oangband winner!
