
============================== Mouse Interface ================================

This file describes how to control FAangband using the mouse, pointer, stylus
or whatever.

-- Movement --
Movement commands are the most commonly used in FAangband, and these are very
simple with the mouse.  To take a step, click on the adjacent grid you want to 
step to.  To move toward a particular non-adjacent grid, click on it; this 
invokes the pathfinding algorithm, which will try to find a way to your 
destination.

--Buttons--
If the mouse_buttons option is set to yes, text "buttons" (usually a command in
brackets, like [y]) will appear on the bottom line of the screen.  Clicking
one of these is the same as giving the keypress for the command.

-- Targetting --
When aiming a spell or missile, clicking on a monster will select it as the 
target; clicking on an unoccupied grid will aim in the direction of that grid; 
clicking on a grid adjacent to the player is like using the arrow key for that 
direction.  When not attacking a monster, clicking on a grid will put the 
cursor on that grid.  If there is a monster there, clicking a second time will 
bring up the monster recall for that monster; if not, that grid will be 
selected as a target.

-- Command menus --

Hitting enter (or the [Ret] button) will open a command menu in the middle of 
the screen.  The commands are divided into groups; clicking on a group name
will bring up a second menu of actual commands.

-- Object menu --
To interact with objects (equipment, inventory, or on the floor), click on the 
player stats area.  This will bring up an inventory menu; clicking on the
correct part of the prompt line will switch to the equipment or floor.  Click
on an item to choose it; this will bring up a menu of commands which can be 
performed with this item.  Clicking the command will perform it.  Note that 
this menu is "back-to-front" compared to the command menus.

If a quantity is required, buttons with + and - will appear; click + to 
increase the quantity or - to decrease.  Decreasing below 0 will usually wrap 
around to give the maximum quantity.

-- Player menu --
Most commands not involving objects are accessible from the player menu, which 
is opened by clicking on the player symbol.  The player menu includes map
related commands, grid altering commands, taking stairs or paths and option 
and knowledge commands.

-- Other places to click --
There are some parts of the screen which when clicked will immediately issue
a command.  These are:

* Clicking on the character title area gives the 'C' character screen command;

* Clicking on the HP display gives the 'R' rest command;

* Clicking on the SP display gives the 'm' or 'p' cast or pray command;

* Clicking on the top line of the screen gives the "^P" previous messages
command;

* Clicking on the location (region and danger level) name gives either the 'H'
move house command (if in a town) or the "^F" repeat level feeling command (if
not in a town);

* If you are playing the Windows CE version, there is also a toolbar with 
configurable macro buttons.


=== Problems ===

The mouse interface is fairly new, and possibly not bugfree.  PLEASE send me
bug reports and opinions.